# Introduction to Pascal Compiler in Pyhton 
This project is a simple Pascal compiler implemented in **Python**. The compiler translates **Pascal source** code into an intermediate representation and generates corresponding **machine code**. It covers a subset of Pascal language features and is designed for educational purposes.

## Lexical Analysis 
Lexical analysis is the first phase of compiler construction, responsible for breaking down the source code into meaningful components called tokens. Tokens are the smallest units of a program and include identifiers, keywords, literals, and operators. In the Pascal Compiler, the PascalLexer class performs lexical analysis by tokenizing Pascal expressions, recognizing integers and the '+' operator. Lexical analysis simplifies the subsequent phases of compilation by providing a structured representation of the source code.

## Parsing 
Parsing is the second phase of compiler construction, where the compiler analyzes the structure of the source code based on the sequence of tokens generated during lexical analysis. This process involves constructing a parse tree, a hierarchical representation of the syntactic structure of the program. In more complex compilers, parsing is often done using tools like parsers generated by parser generators.

While the provided Pascal Compiler in Python focuses primarily on lexical analysis (tokenization), understanding the principles of parsing is essential for building more sophisticated compilers capable of handling the syntax and structure of a programming language.

# How to Run Program
1. **Clone the Repository:** 
- Clone the project repository to your local machine.
  
2. **Navigate to the Project Directory:**
- Open a terminal or command prompt and navigate to the directory where you cloned the project.
  
3. **Run the Example:**
Open the project in a code editor.
Run the example usage script to tokenize a Pascal expression.

```javascript
text = "123 + 456"
lexer = PascalLexer(text)

while True:
    token = lexer.get_next_token()
    print(token)
    if token.type == "EOF":
        break

